Cyclon: Inexpensive membership management for unstructured p2p overlays
Eg of simple gossip network

Gossip-based Peer Sampling
Introduces the idea of a PSS
Excellent model but cant model fanout directly
Experimental results

ARRG: Real-World Gossiping
Hardcore, well tested gossiping system
Points out that most simple systems dont live up to simulations (node failure, unreliable networks, non-atomic updates, NAT)
Introduces the fallback cache (similar to Tribler, but only contains peers reached from here) which improves performance in bad networks
Introdues perceived network size as a measure of overlay health
____

A unifying framework of rating users and data items in peer-to-peer and social networks
Model for distributed ratings (also layout etc)
Distributed gaussian belief
Does it match Tribler?
____

Proactive gossip-based management of semantic overlay networks
A position paper for gossip-based semantic overlays
Introduces and justifies Cyclonicity
Also discusses why semantic and network overlays should be separate (unlike in Tribler)

Distributed Collaborative Filtering for Peer-to-Peer File Sharing Systems
Tribler model, roughly
Model only, not implementation. Abstracts away underlying PSS

Tribler: A social-based peer-to-peer system

Buddycast paper
____

Formal Analysis Techniques for Gossiping Protocols
Justification of using formal modelling
Properties to study
Points out that simulation is unreliable
Loads of case studies

An Analytical Model of Information Dissemination for a Gossip-based Protocol
Best paper ever
Gives justification for what I'm doing
Loads of references to follow
Lookup the authors, citations etc
Model for epidemic spread in (Steen's?) gossip protocol on a static graph

Epidemic Modelling: An Introduction.

From epidemics to distributed computing. 
Summarises state of gossip algorithms and known problems
Not really interesting

Correctness of a gossip based membership protocol. 
Proves that expected time till partioning is high
Worth reading

Lightweight Probabilistic Broadcast. 
Interesting analysis of gossip with fanout

Performance analysis of Cyclon, an inexpensive membership management for unstructured P2P overlays. 
Analytic model
Shows that random scheduling is incorrect, justifies synchronised model

Gossip algorithms: Design, analysis and applications. 
Not really relevant, too specific

Gossip-based aggregation in large dynamic networks. 
Analytic model, assumes overlay

Mean-Field Analysis for the Evaluation of Gossip Protocols
Needs proper read to determine if this is anything new

Analysis of a Gossip Protocol in PRISM
Only really useful for small networks, I think
Could maybe use PRISM for mean-field analysis instead

Astrolabe: A Robust and Scalable Technology for Distributed System Monitoring, Management, and Data Mining. Robbert van Renesse, Kenneth Birman and Werner Vogels. ACM Transactions on Computer Systems
